





Rowena Ricafrente - New Economy

1 Language and ICT
The “new economy” is a term many economists started to use in the last decade of the 20th
century. They argued that information technology, the Internet, ultra-high-tech companies and
globalization had created a completely new type of economy, with considerably greater
productivity and growth rates than the old one that it replaced.
Put simply, it is a buzzword that describes the new, high-growth industries with state-of-the
art technologies that are the driving force of GDP (gross domestic product) growth.
The new economy is the transition from a manufacturing-based to a service-based
economy.
The new economy was born in the United States in the 1990s, and within a few years in the
other advanced nations too. Within a decade, many of the emerging economies also underwent
a similar economic metamorphosis.
Hi-tech and the Internet have not only changed how we rest, work and play, say some
economist, they have also changed the fundamental laws of economics. Automation has
dramatically changed the employment prospects of the blue-collar worker, the way we shop is
vastly different today. Hailing a taxi by raising an arm is something children under 10 will probably
never have to do as adults. A larger number of economists agree that some changes have
occurred, but insist that what makes an economy tick remains the same.
The modern age is termed as the era of knowledge explosion. This explosion has become
possible due to the progress of science and technology. Each and every aspect of human life has
changed due to the effects of science and technology. The use of science and technology in the
field of communication has revolutionized the whole world. Use of modern technological tools has
led to the rise of ICT (Information and Communication technology.) Now ICT is being used in a
number of fields like, health, entertainment, games and sports, transportation, education, industries,

fashion designing, textiles, agriculture etc. With a single click, we can get exchange a lot of
information of the world due to the use of ICT. The field of education is not untouched by the ICT.
Now we cannot imagine education without the use of Information and communication
Technology. It has made exchange of thoughts, ideas, experiences and feelings easier. With the
help of ICT a lot of persons can get education and training simultaneously at low cost. Now ICT is
being used in all the aspects of education. Use of computers, Internet, television, radio, projectors
and mobile phones, e-mail facility, online audio and video conferencing as well as new
applications has made the Teaching Learning Process and Training attractive and convenient. It is
also helpful in saving time, energy and money. So, we can say that ICT is playing the most
important and pivotal role in Teaching Learning Process. Hence it is also playing an important role
in the learning of language, especially English Language Learning.
This lesson focusses on the ways in which language plays a central role in the globalized
new economy. Not only is language itself central as a means of production and as a product, but,
contrary to expectations about the ways in which standardized English may be taking over the
speech economy of the planet, in fact linguistic variability and multilingualism have become vital.
The current debate over the possible existence of a "new economy" calls for an
interpretation and analysis of the phenomenon from various points of view. The fundamental role of
Information and Communications Technology is also highlighted.
Some of the important ICT tools and applications used in the field of English Language
Teaching are following:
 Computers: This is the most important tool of information and communication
technology and backbone of modern human life. All the modern communication
process are impossible without the use of computers. It is helpful in storing, preparing,
collecting and preparing of data for communication. It is helpful in the development


of listening and speaking skills. It is helpful in English language speaking and listening
skills.
 Over head projector: It is an important tool of displaying information and processes
to a large number of people simultaneously. It can be used in teaching and training
of personnel. Prepared forms of information are easy to display with the help of over
head projector.
 Lingua phone: This tool is very important in language training of the students. A
number of students can practice speaking and hearing drills with the help of lingua
phone. It is especially useful in the training of English language listening and
speaking skills.
 Radio: It is very useful in education and training of the students of rural areas. Many
distance and open education programmes are being conducted with the help of
radio. It is also useful in audio conferencing. Programs relayed on radio are helpful in
the development of language skills, especially dialogues and dramas.
 Television: It is useful in education as well as entertainment of the people. It is found
that It is helpful in developing listening skills, useful in learning situational language as
well as It is highly motivating also. It is very helpful in understanding the language of
mass media. A large number of students may be benefitted with the programs of
television simultaneously. Many distance and open universities are running their
educational programs on television, such as Indira Gandhi National Open University,
Maulana Azad National Urdu University etc. It is an important tool of audio video
conferencing. Live telecast of training and discussions are done through this.
 Internet: It is the most important facility of communication. All the modern
communication takes place through this. It has made the communication facility
very fast, convenient, economic, and attractive.


There are lots of facilities available for communication on internet. Some of them are
following:-
 Social media: Social media has become an important tool of communication. It
provides a platform for sharing thoughts and ideas. Blogs are made on it. Students
can add themselves with the English language learning groups and take advantage
of sharing information. Lots of social sites are available on it like, Face book, Twitter,
Instagram etc. It is very helpful in learning situational language
 Online facilities for English language learning: A lot of online facilities are available on
internet for the development language skills. Some of them are e-guidance, e-
tutoring, e-teaching, e-journals, e-magazines, e-books, e-library, online training,
virtual classes etc.
 Online language related courses: These courses are available on internet. Some of
them are free and some of them are payable. Students can enroll themselves in
these courses and get education and training easily on their own place. Some of the
agencies which are providing on line courses are following, Future Learn, itutor
group, 51 talk etc. Students can watch online and offline videos of language
learning for the enhancement of their language skills.
 (d) Feature Films in Teaching English: Films can be used in the teaching of
English language. Films may be documentaries, educational and entertainment
based. These can arouse high level of motivation. It results in a most satisfying
learning experience.
Role of ICT
The sustained growth registered by the United States economy throughout the last decade
presents certain factors that have turned the economic situation in that country into one of
extraordinary characteristics. Increased employment together with low inflation and growth in
productivity resulting in GDP growth over so long a period seemed something really new. In such

circumstances, some experts have even spoken in terms of a "new economy", relating the
performance of the U.S. economy to the spread of the use of the Information and Communications
Technologies (ICT).
This initiated a debate over whether the economic situation in the United States may
correctly be referred to as a new economy and whether the world is about to witness a change of
paradigm, such as took place with the Industrial Revolution. Currently, as a result of the poorer
outcome registered by the same economy in the first months of 2001 and the reduction in its
growth rate, the debate over the possible birth of a “New economy” has diminished both in
urgency and clarity.
The emphasis, moreover, is now being placed on “the question of whether the economic
effects of the new technologies embodied in ICT are captured by conventional, or old, economic
concepts and analysis”.
Another relevant discussion revolves around the question of whether this new economic
phenomenon could occur in other developed economies and whether these might see it spread
to affect their economies as a whole rather than remaining limited to those productive sectors that
are closely linked to the ICT. The question, in other words, is whether this new set of circumstances is
peculiar to the United States, and accounts for its particular evolution, or whether the changes
involved could also take place elsewhere.

2 II. CHARACTERISTICS OF THE SO CALLED NEW
ECONOMY
The new economy phenomenon has been variously referred to as, the weightless economy,
the knowledge economy, the digital economy, the electronic economy, the virtual economy or
network economy, and several other titles. A review of all the different meanings attached to the
term brings us to define the new economy as one based on knowledge and information, relying on
subsectors such as purely digital goods and services, mixed goods (that is, physical goods that are
sold through the Internet) and the ICT industry which provides the support for the afore-mentioned
segments.
Viewing it from a broader perspective, we might interpret the new economy not only as a
phenomenon arising from the impact of ICT at microeconomic level, but also as a consequence of
the effects of technological innovation in macroeconomic terms (improvements in productivity,
lower inflation, structural changes in the productive sector and in employment, the
new role of government, etc.) all this in an international setting shaped by globalization.
ICT: The infrastructure of the New Economy
ICT have spread rapidly, both in the economy and in society in general, partly because
they have completely transformed ways of accessing, processing and storing information. These
technologies are therefore present in all aspects of human activity, making it possible to set up
endless links between different areas, activities and agents.
These changes have favoured the emergence of the so-called information technology
paradigm which features characteristics that favour the development of an interconnected,
interdependent economy, with a network structure. Its tremendous flexibility and capacity for
transformation permit the increasing convergence of specific technologies into a highly integrated
system.

The support for this new paradigm is the Internet. This is chiefly a result of its two main
characteristics: 20..the first of these being that the computers in its network are dispersed and the
second that it is an open network. The former means that, unlike in the traditional, centralized
model, computers connected via the Internet are able to perform multiple functions. Each
computer can function simultaneously as a customer or a supplier of content and/or services.
The fact that the Internet is an open web means that it is based on open standards that
allow any computer on the net to connect, through the same protocols. This permits the interaction
of different computer platforms and simplifies the exchange of information, multiplying the
possibilities of links between the different agents operating in the electronic marketplace.
Language as economic activity
Most sociolinguist work on contemporary social change focusses on language rights (in the
face of the putative spread of English) or on language learning; very little focusses on where
language fits in the daily experiences of people working and living in the shifting conditions of the
new economy. This chapter aims at sketching out what major sociolinguistic issues may be related
to the current expansion of the service and information sector, and indeed argues that a
sociolinguistic perspective is essential to understanding the nature of activity in that sector. These
issues include: the centrality of language as both mode of production and product; the treatment
of language as a work-related competence, either as a measurable skill, or, conversely, as a talent;
the tension between defining the value of language in the workplace in terms of ideologies of
language as technical skill or as authentic possession of groups considered legitimate "owners"; and
emerging consequences of those choices for the new "language workers". The main argument is
that the new economy has difficulty managing the new centrality of language, since it is caught in
contradictions between standardization and flexibility, horizontal management and quality control,
and technical versus authentic understandings of the value of language itself.


One of the major features of the new economy is the central role that language plays, both
as a means of production and as a product itself. In activities associated with primary resource
extraction or its secondary transformation, communication, and in particular written
communication, tends to be the work of management, not of labour. It is management that uses
language to produce reports, to make plans, to send memos, to conduct meetings. Relevant
information is transmitted to the workforce through middlemen, who occupy a position in the
hierarchy between management and labour. Labour itself is often working in conditions that make
communication difficult; too much noise, too much danger.
Energy Security and Climate Sustainability
The beginning of 2007 offers a conflicting picture of the global economy for those trying to
discern trends, challenges and opportunities. Concerns about energy security and climate
sustainability are converging-finally bringing consensus in sight on the need for action in the United
States, but prospects for breaking the global stalemate are still years away. While some developing
countries are succeeding in bringing hundreds of millions out of poverty, too many are still mired in
a doom spiral of conflict, poverty, and disease- despite the entry of new philanthropists, advocates
and global corporations into the field of development. China’s projected 9.6 percent growth rate is
sending ripples to the farthest reaches of the planet-creating opportunities but also significant risks.
The United States remains in the “goldilocks” zone, but this is premised on continued borrowing from
abroad at historically unprecedented rates while many Americans fret about widening inequality
and narrowing opportunity. While the United States concentrates on civil war in the Middle East,
most leaders in the region are preoccupied with putting an outsized cohort of young people to
work and on the road to becoming productive citizens.
What are the most important challenges we face and what are the potential solutions? In
Washington, D.C., where short-term political wrangling too often crowds out the harder and more
important long-term challenges, this inaugural publication of Brookings Global Economy and

Development seeks to put the spotlight squarely back on the most consequential issues demanding
action. It seeks to size these issues, offering policymakers and leaders a concise and clear view of
the critical challenges as viewed by leading experts in the field. From economic exclusion of youth
in the Middle East to a pragmatic approach to energy and environmental security, this “top 10” is
intended to mark core issues and shed light on opportunities and challenges with a broader and
longer-term perspective.

3 Challenges that confronts New Economy
Energy and environmental security has emerged as the primary issue on the global agenda
for 2007. Consensus has recently been forged on the potential for long-term economic, national
security and societal damage from insecure energy supplies and environmental catastrophe, as
well as the intense need for technological advances that can provide low-polluting and secure
energy sources. Yet despite growing global momentum, there is still little agreement on the best set
of actions required to reduce global dependency on fossil fuels and greenhouse gas emissions.
Confounding the international policy challenge is the disproportionate impact of high oil prices
and global warming across nations, insulating some countries from immediate concern while
forcing others to press for more rapid change.
Global Imbalances
Today’s interconnected world is in uncharted territory: the world’s sole hegemonic power,
the United States, nurses an addiction to foreign capital, while up-and-coming powers such as
China and oil exporters sustain surpluses of increasing magnitudes. Some worry that the world is at a
tipping point, where only a dramatic shift in economic policy can alter the looming trajectory.
Others see underlying structural factors perpetuating gross imbalances for a sustained period.
The Rise of New Powers
The rise of “emerging powers”-a group that usually includes the so-called BRICs (Brazil,
Russia, India, and China), but which sometimes is applied more broadly to include South Africa,
Mexico and others-is reshaping the global economy and, more gradually, international politics.
Growing much faster than the rest of the world, these economies are changing the structure of
international production and trade, the nature and direction of capital flows, and the patterns of
natural resource consumption. At the same time, the growth of these countries is beginning to shift

the global distribution of power forcing the great powers to come to terms with the reality that they
will need to share management of international rules and systems in the coming decades.
Economic Exclusion in the Middle East
The Middle East has before it what could be one of the greatest demographic gifts in
modern history-a potential economic windfall arising from a young and economically active
workforce. Today, young people aged 15- to 24- years old account for 22 percent of the region’s
total population, the highest regional average worldwide. With the right mix of policies, this
demographic opportunity could be tapped to spur economic growth and promote stability.
Global Corporations and Impact
The private sector is becoming a significant player-indeed some might say the dominant
player-in shaping the global economic and development agenda. Multinational corporations with
operations that span the globe, and in some cases capacities and networks that match those of
governments, have a particularly important role to play in helping to spread the opportunities and
mitigating some of the risks of globalization.
Global Health Crises
From responding to the threat of pandemic flu to efforts to control the spread of HIV/AIDS,
the world has begun to realize that global health issues are relevant for any citizen, regardless of
nationality, residence or status. Despite improvements in the world’s collective ability to battle
disease with advances in medicine and technology, global health needs remain unmet, making
the entire world vulnerable to health crises. In particular, the poor continue to suffer
disproportionately from inadequate health services, exacerbating their struggle out of poverty.

Global Governance
Today’s global challenges-nuclear proliferation, the deadlock of global trade negotiations,
the threat of pandemic flu, and the fight against global poverty-cannot be solved by yesterday’s
international institutions. To resolve the world’s most pressing problems, which touch all corners of
the globe, we must adapt our global governance approaches to be more representative and thus
more effective by encouraging and enabling the key affected countries to take an active role in
generating solutions.
Global Poverty: New Actors New Approaches
The challenge of global poverty is more urgent than ever: over half the world’s population-
nearly 3 billion people-lives on less than $2 per day; nearly 30,000 children die each day-about 11
million per year -because they’re too poor to survive. With such a toll, addressing poverty in new
and more effective ways must be a priority for the global policy agenda. Fortunately, a variety of
new actors are bringing new perspectives, new approaches and new energy to the challenge.
Conflict and Poverty
In a world where boundaries and borders have blurred, and where seemingly distant threats
can metastasize into immediate problems, the fight against global poverty has become a fight for
global security. American policymakers, who traditionally have viewed security threats as involving
bullets and bombs, are increasingly focused on the link between poverty and conflict: the
Pentagon’s 2006 Quadrennial Defense Review focuses on fighting the “long war,” declaring that
the U.S. military has a humanitarian role in “alleviating suffering, ? [helping] prevent disorder from
spiraling into wider conflict or crisis.”
New technologies were poised to fundamentally change traditional means of operating. Be
it e-commerce and government services provided over the Internet, or robotics and 3D printing
disrupting traditional manufacturing supply chains, or emerging technologies such as artificial

intelligence: it was timely for both the private sector and government to think hard about our
responses to the resultant challenges and opportunities, particularly with respect to jobs in the
future.

4 The Future of Work
The future of work is not some science fiction dystopia where machines take over man.
The potential impact of technology has been much discussed by experts elsewhere.
Enough to say, the future of work is not some science fiction dystopia where machines take over
man and the human race is displaced or destroyed. Technology will remain very much a tool to
enable the design and production of better goods and services that will benefit people: a
supplement to, rather than a supplanting of. But how might governments and policymakers, when
thinking about the future of work, respond to help people harness more quickly and broadly the
benefits of technology and globalisation? That is a questions that is still being figured out by
everyone.
The Changing Nature of Work: Tasks, Not Titles
The future of work will no longer be defined by organisational structures. Instead, work will
increasingly be about tasks, and how we organise ourselves around performing those tasks
together. Task Rabbit and Uber are immediate examples of how work can be reclassified to be
about harnessing available resources to solve a particular task, rather than relying on an organised
group of people identified as “plumbers” or “taxi drivers” in their job description. Even jobs like
BPO’s - individuals working in different locations but staying constantly connected through phones
and computers—would not have been possible without modern technology.
When thinking about the future of work more broadly in the economy, we should more
readily acknowledge that work will be less about people showing up to the same location, the
same desk, every single day, for 20 years of their lives. Instead, the work of the future will look more
like problem solving around a web of discrete tasks—some more complex than others—that will
require a dynamic set of people who bring with them a diversity of skills that are required to solve

that problem at hand. From an individual’s perspective, it is said that one could go through some
six-and-a-half different jobs or “large tasks”, within the duration of his or her career.
How should organisations respond then? Successful organisations of the future will be the
ones that allow people, internal and external, to organise themselves to solve tasks. But beyond
nimbleness, organisational structures will also need to be resilient enough to be drawn and redrawn
around such self-forming teams, without losing the fundamental ability to achieve the
organisation’s mission or retain its culture.
The Changing Models of Learning
If the nature of work evolves to become more task-based and needs-focused, then
education and training programmes will similarly need to be about increasing the workforce’s
range of skills and competencies to access and meet the needs of the future. A dynamic and
globalised world means that learning is no longer about attaining educational qualifications by the
early twenties, but about adding on new skills all the time, and just in time.
In thinking about the changing models of learning, we can think across two
dimensions: time and types of recognisable qualifications. The time dimension is about dismissing
the notion that education and training only happen in the first 20 to 25 years of one’s life. Instead,
they must happen throughout a person’s career lifespan, perhaps in 5- to 10-year cycles, in tandem
with innovation cycles and the average time it takes to build up expertise, all the way to retirement.
In a sense, training is both a marathon and a sprint.
In terms of types, the economy must increasingly be able to attach a value to the
acquisition of skills that are relevant in the workplace, but which may not be captured in paper
qualifications. The creative industry, which privileges the quality of the portfolio over the individual’s
academic attainment, is perhaps a good example of this.

Training must happen throughout a person’s career, in tandem with innovation cycles and
the average time it takes to build up expertise. Training is both a marathon and a sprint.
If learning happens across a longer period of time, and mastery can take many forms, we
must then grow accustomed to the reality that people will have, or aspire to have, multiple careers
throughout their lives. Anecdotally, there already seems to be greater acceptance of young
people switching out of their desk-bound jobs to hone more technical or operational skillsets that
will bring value to the economy in a different way: 41..lawyers becoming restauranteurs, or
teachers becoming freelancing coders, for instance. Singapore still has some distance to go in
honouring vocational and technical craftsmen, the way some other societies such as Germany do.
The family may fret about unstable incomes, while the policymaker worries about the
potential skills mismatch between the workforce and the economy, or how our social safety nets
would hold up if the general trends continue. While these are all valid concerns, our primary focus
should be on designing robust systems that support and recognise the lifelong learning of micro skills
that are needed within the economy. And because of the close nexus of skills acquisition to the
changing needs of the industry, companies must be an integral part of this intervention, in defining
what “good” looks like, and in coming alongside to design and provide appropriate and timely
training, for such systems to be effective.
Conclusion
Like it or not, the future economy belongs to those who are mobile and adaptable, who
exhibit empathy and cultural sensitivity, and who can learn throughout their lives. To the extent that
we can intentionally create a system to support these shifts, we should. But we must also be mindful
that not everyone will be able to acquire and demonstrate these attributes to the fullest extent,
and our system design must cater to them also, not leave them behind.

We must also be careful to not get so caught up with change that we forget what is
evergreen. In the end, regardless of changing contexts, work is ultimately about creating meaning
for ourselves and others. Meaningfulness does not always have to be about having the skills to
teach robots to dance, or writing out grand strategies for the future.